---
title: Singlish - A personal take.
tags: [Random, Language]
style: 
color: 
description: Thinking about the same but different "English" used commonly in Singapore.
---
**Disclaimer - Just a personal opinion on Singlish, and it is not by any means a serious or professional write-up.** 
Just when I was trying to fall asleep, my monkey brain decided that it is a great
time to talk about Singlish, an adaptation of English in Singapore. As I tried to 
trace back to my time as a kid growing up in Singapore, I could not pinpoint 
when did I learn "Singlish", or from whom did I learn from. It just came naturally.

It may therefore be thought that English would be a natural in Singapore, a 
city-state comprising of a highly-diversified population of different races and culture.
Why then was proper English so difficult to be taught in Singapore? (To the extent that
there was national-level initiatives from the national government to promote proper English
over the "villianfied" Singlish).

One of the reasons I thought of is the adaptability and freedom of it. 
Living in a mandarin-speaking family, proper Queen's English was highly challenging for
me as a kid, with all the inconsistencies, rules, and naunces. Singlish on the other
hand, being unexaminable and without a formal body governing the structure, seems
to offer a greater freedom of expression. By picking certain words from the different
languages as replacement, the impact of a sentence can be enhanced without laws.
For example:
"Sibei that's it" 
Nonetheless, I value the cross-border
nature of English language, and appreciate the benefit of speaking it especially
when I am overseas.

It is a language which enhances the sense of unity or familarity when used during conversation
with fellow Singaporeans.


